# Art-Gallery-Management-System
An Art Gallery is usually a display of an artist's work and the customers who are art enthusiasts would see the paintings and also buy if they like the paintings. Art Gallery Management System is an endeavor to bring conventional visiting museums or exhibitions to the online platform. The Project has four modules. The first one is User Management System where an artist, customer, and admin can log in. Everyone has to be given a fair chance to display their work and art, so an artist can log in to the website and upload his paintings. This is the work of artist module. On the other hand, there are a lot of people who are very much interested in art and loves admiring other's work and appreciate them. To fulfill this requirement customer module comes into play, any person can log in as a customer and see the paintings, if the painting influences and inspires them they can even buy it. To manage all this data admin is quintessential, thus the admin module is explained by this reason. Admin can manage the customer data, artist data, and also look at all the sales made.  
Existing System:
In General, we visit a museum or an art gallery in person. If we find any painting of our interest, we need to contact the manager to know about all the payment procedure and then do the further process. Even, after all this, we might receive news that the painting is already booked or that you did not carry that much cash to the gallery. 
Given the situation of pandemic and social distancing in these times also it is not a feasible solution.
Proposed System:
It is an advantage to the art lovers because the painting will be in your hands just in a click. The registering and visiting the gallery is a cakewalk and the customers will face no issues. This idea of online art gallery management will expedite the general process.
Albeit, we have to compromise on seeing the painting by our naked eye and appreciating its aesthetics and colors as such. Because here the painting is a digital picture of the original painting but not the original painting itself. 
Briefly mentioning the requirements, the project is developed using Java mainly JSP's and Servlets. MySQL is used for Database.
Conclusion:
In simple words, our project is an open invitation for all the artists to display their works and also an opportunity for all the art lovers to buy their desired paintings. It bridges all the gaps between everyone and puts them on one platform.
